Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
Em. Em.
- Get her to the sofa.
- It's okay.
Charlotte.
Anne. find papa.
Oh. it's just a bad cold.
They shouldn't be too long.
my love.
- 'What is it. my love?'
- Hmm. there's nothing.
'There is something.'
'How did you write it?'
'How did you write
Weathering Heights?'
I took my pen
and put it to paper.
There's something more.
Something you're hiding from me.
Why is it so hard
for you to believe
that your sister could write
something of merit?
'It's an ugly book.'
'It's bias and ugly'
'and full of selfish people
who only care for themselves.'
Good.
There is something.
Captain Sneaky.
Captain?
Soldiers are waiting
for your command. ma'am.
Thank you. Captain.
Captain.
Yes. ma'am?
I've been thinking of
what you said. sir.
And what did you think. ma'am?
You are..
...measurably important
to this kingdom. sir.
Thank you. ma'am.
What I meant to say before is..
...you're more important
to me than anyone.
And..
She's here.
I'll take me leave. captain.
- Charlotte. You're back.
- Anne.
- Father.
- Welcome home.
Oh. Branwell.
Charlotte. my girl.
we missed you.
I missed you all so much.
Wee congratulations.
young doll.
'Yes. they want me to stay on
as a teacher after I graduate.'
- 'Oh. wonderful.'
- 'Wonderful. Charlotte.'
'Charlotte. that's great.'
'I wouldn't expect
anything less.
'I'm so proud.'
'I wish I was going.'
- 'Emily's turn first.'
- 'Where is that girl?'
- 'Daydreaming no doubt.'
- 'Em!'
There she is.
There's my scruff.
Em. Charlotte's been
offered a teaching position
at the school
after she graduates.
Where have you been.
Emily Jane?
Working on my French. papa.
Mm. Come and help your aunt.
Your sister'll be hungry.
'Just excited to see her.'
Is that you in there?
- It's me.
- You look different.
I'm just the same.
Come here.
And then they traveled
on the wings of the dragon
and they find Captain Sneaky.
Captain Sneaky?
Mm. It's just for fun.
I'm writing other things.
We both are. Anne and I.
More serious affair.
What have you been writing?
I haven't had time
to write anything.
But you must write.
Are you looking forward
to starting at school?
- Yes.
- They're all dying to meet you.
Is it nice having friends
outside the family?
Of course.
You've been working
on your French. Oui?
Oui.
What?
- You said "His bottom."
- What?
'Emily.'
I meant the end.
The ending of it.
I know you did.
I think Captain Sneaky
should return to battle
before the dawn.
No. Esmeral's waiting
for him. remember?
He must journey far across
the desert and into the--
You mustn't talk that way.
- What way?
- At the school..
'You won't.
will you. Emily Jane?'
- It's just a story.
- It'll draw attention.
'It's strange.'
'And from the wrath
of the land'
for the great day
of His wrath hath come..
...and who shall be
able to stand?
'Amen.'
Amen.
'And now. brethren'
'it's my duty
to introduce to you today'
'our new curate
Mr. William Weightman.'
'He's going to assist me in this
great wager against sin.'
'I'd like to
ask Mr. Weightman. uh'
'graduate of Oxford University
no less. say a few words.'
'Thank you. Reverent Bronte.
for your very kind words.'
Brethren. it rained my
entire journey up here.
It rained and it rained
and it rained and I thought..
"...Where in God's name
have I landed?"
'And as it continued to rain'
'I began to think
about what I might say'
at my new. slightly damp
congregation.
And it occurred to me
to talk about the rain.
'Because generally
I-I do love it.'
To walk in it..
...the feel of it.
the smell of it. and..
Especially. especially
if you lie awake at night
and listen to it.
There's nothing quite like that.
'And often. when..'
'...I'm listening to the rain
in my bed late at night'
'I am in despair
about. about something.'
'What if I was to think..'
'...we. all the people
of Howarth'
'at that very moment'
'are in their beds.'
'And they too are
listening to the rain'
'and they too are lonely
and sad and afraid.'
'And suddenly I don't feel
I'm alone anymore.'
God is in the rain.
And God is in us.
'But how can we be alone..'
'...when we're all listen
to the rain together.'
'Let us pray.'
What are you going to give them?
There's nothing left but bread.
- Did you hear him?
- Yes. the Weightman.
- Wasn't he--
- Insufferable.
Did you hear
what Reverent Miller said?
Meaning of life
in a cup of tea.
What about Weightman's? Um..
Yeah. it was alright.
He speaks with such poetry.
- Such truth.
- Which any man can speak.
What I want to know is
can he actually do--
'Do what?'
Ah..
An empty plate.
Sorry. I don't think
we've been properly introduced.
Ah. Mr. William Weightman.
Do any of you
actually speak English?
I do.
'I mean..'
'This is Emily. Anne.
and Charlotte.'
'I'm Charlotte.'
'God bless you all.'
Your sermon was very--
'Oh. I. was it too much?'
I. uh..
Actually. I. what I thought
halfway through. I. uh..
I planned to be
a lot more eloquent.
But. uh. when you get up there
you just..
'Nature is always an
inspiration.'
'Yes. nature was wonderful.'
Thank you. Thank you.
Though. Jove.
he's very dramatic..
'...in any way for joke.'
'The rain was a good choice.'
'Thank you.'
I do wonder though.
How does God squeeze himself
into all that rain?
Won't he get wet?
- Please. the humanities?
- Yes.
- The poetry. painting. music.
- 'Exactly--'
These are the very air
that our society breathes
rather than destroy us.
Reverend Miller.
Oh. here they are.
I return home
to find my poor father
overrun with the entire clergy
of Yorkshire
'and not a pot
of tea to be seen.'
And my sisters holding back
the new curate in the kitchen.
Branwell Bronte.
How do you do. sir?
William Weightman.
Your brother has been accepted
into the Royal Academy of Arts.
girls. eh.
- 'Congratulations.'
- Thank you. Thank you.
- 'That was wonderful.'
- 'Well done.'
She's asking papa
if she might have a friend
come stay in the spring.
A friend?
- Here?
- From the school.
Oh.
Branwell
at the Royal Academy of Arts.
Can you believe it?
Papa may not approve
of a visitor.
You know what he's like.
And you're off to become
a wonderful teacher.
Yes.
'Anne. Emily. come to bed.'
Coming.
- Captain Sneaky's tonight. aye?
- Ah..
Perhaps we should leave
our stories for a while.
What?
Charlotte says that stories
like that are for children.
She needn't know.
We could sneak down tonight.
play it toge--
No. we're not
children anymore. Em.
I like to play
these games with you..
...write these stories.
but..
But what?
Sometimes.
I think you actually believe--
Yes?
Come on.
She's waiting.
Do you ever miss mother?
We agreed not to talk of her.
didn't we?
Yes.
But don't you dream of her?
I don't dream at all now.
A waste of good sleep.
Besides..
...we should not
dwell in the past.
It's the future
we must live for.
Hmm?
I hear you're going to join
your sister at the school
to study. Ms. Emily.
- Yes.
- Well. that'd be lovely.
Here you are.
Thank you.
Does everyone in Howarth know
that I'm going to that school?
Is there applied mail
your friend Ellen?
Yes.
And this.
From Mr. Weightman.
One to each of us.
Valentines!
In French!
Look. little sachet of seeds.
- Rose seeds.
- Is he here?
Is Mr. Weightman here?
He's gone over to
Keith's for the afternoon.
Mrs. Bateman died.
Oh. how lovely.
Look.
- Going to Howarth.
- Is that so?
You know it so.
That's very kind thing to say.
Ms. Bronte.
Well. it's the truth.
'And I always speak the truth.'
I just want to
stay in my bedroom
until your friend Ellen goes.
- For three days?
- 'You know what I'm like.'
Can't you see
how that'll be perceived?
How rude. how strange--
Or you can tell her
I've gone away for a few days.
No. that. no. that's insane!
I won't do it. Charlotte.
I won't.
You know I don't like
to meet new people.
How are you going to get on
with your life if you're so--
He doesn't care about you.
you know.
Pardon?
The new curate.
- Weightman.
- Take that back.
He's not to be trusted.
He is a dear friend.
You wait and see.
If you give me her hand.
Just. please. Mr. Weightman.
- I'm sure we can manag--
- Oh. Oh.
- Ellen.
- Breathe. Breathe. Ms. Nussey.
- 'Mr. Weightman. honestly--'
- 'No. it's absolutely fine.'
- 'I have it. I have it.'
- 'Should I go?'
If you. you step back.
if you. if you step back--
- Oh. gosh.
- You could've used my knee.
- 'I'm not so sure of it.'
- 'Whoo!'
No one push her.
'Let go of her hand
and then if you use my knee--'
Yes. I. I'm going to jump.
I'm going to go. I'm going to..
- Well done.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
'What small hands you have.
Ms. Nussey.'
Oh. thank you. Mr. Weightman.
Yeah. my mother could
wear the gloves
'of a four year old girl.
So they say.'
- Come on.
- I think it's going to rain.
- 'I'll make it easy for you.'
- 'Thank you.'
Oh. dear. Do you think it
will rain. Mr. Weightman?
'No. it should hold
a while longer. Ms. Nussey.'
'Sorry.'
Ellen. did have a bit of trouble
getting over that wall?
I'm pretty sure
I just felt a drop.
- Me too!
- So did we!
No. No. It will halt.
This tree. Ladies.
shelter under this tree.
- This tree isn't helping.
- No. it isn't.
This is not working at all.
'Come on. On with it. troops.'
Charge!
Come on. Charlotte.
All the way to battle!
Sorry.
Look. they don't
like the rain.
- The feel of it.
- The sound of it.
The smell of it.
From now on we shall call him
Ms. Celia Amelia.
- I'm a fool.
- No. you're not.
But I'd rather be a fool
than not live at all.
You're an embarrassment to us.
Do you know what they
call you in the village?
- Stop it. Charlotte.
- No!
They call you The Strange One.
And you are.
Mother would be ashamed
to see who you've become.
Every time I come home
I see more and more
of what you're becoming.
I won't let you drag me down.
I won't!
I'm going to make
something of myself.
Charlotte.
- Please talk--
- Please--
- Please talk.
- Please share.
- Please.
Very well.
- He always does that?
- Does he?
- Here we go.
- This is a good story.
Oh. no.
Now. this mask which you see
before you..
And you may pass it amongst
yourselves if you wish.
Was given to my dear deceased
wife on our wedding day.
But the card was never
found and so we never found out
who gave us
such a mysterious gift.
And then we discovered
Aunt Branwell had bought it
on a drunken summer evening--
Branwell. you naughty child.
It is not true.
It has long been a plaything
of my children. Mr. Weightman
'who pretended that it would
give them magical powers'
'transforming them into
all the characters'
'of Shakespeare and the Bible.'
'Although I do remember
thinking at the time'
'that that may not be entirely
appropriate in the eyes of God.'
I'm afraid as a Christian
and a clergymen
I cannot condone such acts.
Oh. Mr. Weightman.
it's just a bit of fun.
- No!
- My friend. come here.
No. no. no. no. no.
Nothing you say. sir.
shall persuade me. Nothing.
D-d-do you.
do you like cake?
Ah.
Do you like cake so much
that you want
everybody to eat it?
Yes. Let's all eat cake!
- Are you Marie Antoinette?
- Oui!
'Excellent. Ms. Bronte.'
Well. I say we may use up
the London stage. Charlotte.
Oh. I'm sure that honor
belongs to you. Ellen dear.
'Should we call a close?'
Well. but Emily hasn't
had a turn.
Oh. no.
- No.
- Oh. come on. Em. Last one.
- Everyone else had a turn.
- I don't want to.
Yes. if she doesn't want to
and really.
she wouldn't be any good.
Hmm.
- Give it to me.
- Do you know who--
Yes. give it here.
Now just wait until someone
comes to you.
'Who are you?'
Still me. I'm sorry.
- For the love of God.
- It's getting late. Can--
Shh. Please.
It can be anyone.
A queen. pirate--
She's too shy.
She shouldn't be
made to do it.
She's not shy.
she just needs some--
Everybody's had a turn.
Yes. everybody's had a turn.
it's her--
It's not for you to say.
Mr. Weightman.
It isn't for you to say and--
'Children.'
Who are you?
I cannot stay long.
Where did you come from?
- From the dark.
- Here we go.
It's so cold outside.
I'm glad to be in here with you.
Where did you come from?
I'm afraid it will frighten you
if I tell you.
Why would we be afraid?
Don't you know who I am?
Who are you?
I lived here not long ago.
And I knew you all.
Emily.
I can see through this mask that
Emily is wearing.
'I can see Charlotte.'
'And Branwell. and Anne.'
You all look so lovely.
my angels.
Who are you?
Don't you know me. child?
Mother.
- Stop it. Emily.
- Please. stop. Please. stop.
- Please. stop.
- 'Please don't be afraid.'
I waited so long
to see you all my children.
- Mother.
- What can we do. mama?
'I worry so much. my children.'
We miss you so.
we try to be good.
- Branwell.
- Mother.
You hold yourself still. child.
Hold yourself to the ground.
Yes. mother.
- Mother.
- Anne.
'Dear. sweet one.
you are alright.'
I feel you now.
Charlotte.
Little mother.
where are you darling child?
'I want so much for you to be--'
Mother. I try. I try to be good.
And Emily..
Tell Emily that when she is
lonely
she wants .
They're here.
- Who's here?
- They've come to take me back.
- 'Oh. my God.'
- Mama.
I've come to warn you.
The mask will break.
The mask is not your friend.
it will break you.
Every night I watch you
and cry that my children won't..
'...someone
will wear the mask.'
'They cannot breathe!
They cannot breathe!'
- They're coming out.
- Get the mask off!
Let me see!
'Please. children.
you have to let me go.'
Mama!
'Mama!'
Take the mask off her!
Let me speak to them.
- Mama.
- Mama!
- 'Come back.'
- How dare you. Ms. Bronte?
How dare you?
- We love you. mama!
- Come back!
We love you!
'Come back.'
- Please come back.
- Mama!
- We love you so--
- 'What has happened?'
What has happened?
Remember to keep still.
everyone.
Bye-bye. love.
- Thank you.
- And good luck.
We expect great things.
'There's something
about my spirit'
'which cannot be
contained within a brush.'
'The visions in my head
are too vivid. too large'
'to fill a mere canvas.'
'And it is with words. papa'
'that I will truly
find my vocation.'
But the money?
Anne will go with Charlotte
to the school in the morning.
Rest tomorrow we will decide
how to proceed.
I will do better
and be better. sir.
'When I'm gone.
you'll need to..'
'You must find a way
to make yourself useful.'
'To papa. to the family.'
'I know it's difficult
for you. this life..'
'...but try not to be
a burden. Emily Jane.'
'You must avoid that
at all cost.'
Come on.
- Pardon?
- Get dressed.
We're going out.
Breathe in all that fresh air.
Have you ever felt so alive?
Oh. and I nearly lost my life
in a fight.
A fight?
I was doubled up on the ground.
Somebody's foot kicking
into my stomach
I could feel it almost
connecting with my backbone.
And then. nothing.
- Gosh.
- Should we sit?
Mm.
And then I realized
what I wanted to do.
Like a gas light
flaring up in me.
And all this
has opened my eyes.
I mean. who was that before?
Who was I?
I do not know.
You alright there?
Yes.
And what do you want to do?
- Hmm?
- With your life.
I don't know.
That's not very good. is it?
- I am to write.
- To write?
Yes. And what do you think
I should write about?
What?
I shall take from
my own life. The ordinary.
And make it extraordinary.
But why?
The great Shelley
says that God surrounds
each artist with
different things.
Good. bad.
beautiful. and ugly.
And that there's
design in that.
There's reason in that.
I was going to be teacher.
As Charlotte.
I think papa
would have liked that.
What do you think?
Pardon?
What do you think yourself?
I never wanted
to be teacher.
I just did it because I thought
then papa would love me
as he loves Charlotte.
Is there something
wrong with me. brother?
Hmm?
Charlotte says
all the people in the village
call me The Strange One.
Am I strange?
Everyone's strange if you look
at them for long enough.
No. it's just
Charlotte's always right.
Charlotte?
What?
She's the embodiment of a lie.
Well. surely you must know this.
Father's love.
that's all she wants.
So she's put away her
stories and her dreams..
...her magic.
You shouldn't say that.
- Why not?
- Because she's our sister.
We're supposed to
love and cherish her.
Do you think she loves
and cherishes you
who you really are?
Do you think
I could be a writer?
Perhaps.
You'd have to show me
something first though.
I have lots of stories.
- Should we go back?
- Mm.
What's this?
Hmm? Oh. yes.
My creed.
Don't let Aunt B see that.
I don't care
if she sees it or not.
"Freedom in thought."
Mm. yes. but you can't
say it though.
You have to shout it.
- Freedom in thought!
- What are you doing?
- You try.
- No. you're being silly.
I'm deadly serious.
Come on.
No. someone might hear us.
Oh. yeah. They might.
Freedom in thought!
Try it.
- Freedom in thought!
- Oh. pathetic attempt.
Freedom in thought!
Come on. really get behind it.
- Freedom in thought!
- Come on. Give us some welly.
Freedom in thought!
Emily Jane.
I think Reverend Miller
might have just
fallen off his chair
in the rectory.
Good.
Freedom in thought!
- It was...very well executed.
- Executed?
Mr. Weightman will be
tutoring you in French.
'You will start this morning.'
Thank you. father.
Blindly?
Hmm.
There's a great deal
of difference.
Weightman was advertising
blind faith today.
- While speaking French?
- Yes.
- Very clever that one.
- Mm.
He says it's the only way
to the afterlife.
He's just drumming up business.
Without focus on questioning
sheep. what is a shepherd?
'So Jove is. is asking why he'
'an-an upright man.
a good man..'
And Jove accuses God
of. of being. of being unjust.
- 'Shh.'
- 'Then afterward..'
Where is he?
Go and fetch him.
will you. Emily Jane?
I'm sure that I recognize
this photo from somewhere.
The snake from Garden of Eden.
Oh. Emily.
Save me from these wolfs.
Gentlemen. may I present
my sister Ms. Emily Bronte.
'I know your father well.'
Sir Ralph Delaney
of Delaney lodge.
How do you do. young lady?
Aunt says to come home
for supper now.
'Mm. just come and sit
with me for a minute'
while I finish my drink. yeah?
We are discussing
the ensuing election
Or should I say
the rat race of humans scum.
Yeah.
- 'Would you miss?'
- Unh.
Oh. come on. Em.
Here. Have some of mine
first to see if you like it.
'Get the glasses. Chevy.'
I wonder what they argue
so much about.
That's what I said.
'It is a wonder
they do not chase each other'
around and around
and around the house.
'I'll tell you neither of them
will get my vote.'
'Sir Ralph. you lie like a rug.'
'You have not voted
since Julius Caesar.'
'Tonight be fair. sir.
Tonight be fair.'
'I don't trust any of them.'
- 'That one was promising.'
- 'Lovely. Emily.'
- 'Yes. well done.'
- Thank you. Reverend Miller.
Doesn't she play beautifully?
Oh. yes.
It's intoxicating.
Perhaps...we should
finish early today.
Seems that last night's
entertainment
has exhausted your powers
of concentration.
Ms. Bronte.
your brother can be unstable--
Do not speak of my brother.
I see that he's becoming
a true friend for you.
A blessing in this wasteland
but I worry that
to be influenced by Branwell
could harm your soul.
If much--
If it is my soul.
it is none of your business
whom it spends time with.
And if my home
is a wasteland to you
I suggest you go back to your
we will not miss you.
What is that?
"Freedom in.."
"O'thy bright eyes
must answer now.
"When reason
with a scornful brow
"is mocking at my overthrow.
O'thy sweet tongue must.."
Come on. it's just up ahead.
Where are we going?
Surprise.
Branwell.
'They can't see us. Shh.'
'Sometimes I get so close.
my nose is practically'
squashed up against the glass.
What do you think
they're thinking?
Hmm.
The son is thinking..
"...That pudding was delicious.
"When mama and papa are asleep.
I shall snoop downstairs
and gorge myself silly on it."
And he is thinking..
"...What a handsome
fellow I am.
"I'm sure
the cook fancies me.
Why. yesterday I'm certain
she winked at me."
- Cook has a twitchy eye.
- And a wooden leg.
And her hearing will be gone.
And she?
She's beautiful.
isn't she?
Do you think
she married him for his money?
Perhaps she hasn't.
It's alright.
Oh. hell. Come on.
Come on. Come on!
'Hey. there they are!'
Branwell. wait.
Wait. Wait.
Come back here!
Branwell. wait for me!
Branwell!
Whoo!
And your brother's room.
I've got some errands
this afternoon.
Could you put the washing
on the line?
Yes.
Good girl.
'...such large crowds gathered
around it.'
'...all the people..'
Ms. Bronte.
Miss Bronte.
Are you so lost?
Are you going to tell father?
- Let me look at your face.
- No.
Let me see.
Thank God. Ms. Bronte.
- It's nothing.
- Nothing?
I'll kill him
when I find him.
Bran wasn't..
I stole it from him.
You stole it?
Tell father quickly then.
It's the time he'd be spared of
restless night's sheep. sleep.
Oh. I'm sure
you'll be guaranteed
a blissful night's sleep.
Go inside. Go home.
Are you going to tell father?
Are you going to tell..
You're late.
You didn't tell my father.
No. I didn't.
Why not?
A mystery.
Should we go back?
We just got here.
I'll be going to bed soon
anyway.
I saw you with Weightman today.
- What?
- I saw you today.
He used to be
the butt of our jokes
and now I see you
walking out with him.
You are drunk. brother.
- What were you talking about?
- There's nothing.
Thinks himself to be an artist.
the way he preaches..
...but he's not.
- You know he looks at you.
- What?
- What are you talking about?
- Look at you. You're blushing.
He thinks he has to care for my
soul as to cure it. that's all.
He doesn't care for it.
he wants it.
'And when he realizes
he can't have it'
when he realizes
what you really are..
...he'll be terrified.
Run.
- 'There they are!'
- 'Go!'
- 'Go. go. go!'
- 'Come back here!'
Ah! Run away. Go away. my love.
Go! Go!'
He asked me to fetch you in.
Were you there?
Was it you?
The problems that you arise..
Can you truly do this with
his voice always in your ear?
'I cannot say. Reverend Bronte.
It was dark.'
'The girl was similar
but had such a..'
'...wild looking
or like a gypsy or a beggar.'
'You may not have any
self-restraint'
'but you will show some
in this house.'
Was it you. girl?
Were you out tonight spying
into respectable houses
instead of tending to your
prayers because if it were you--
Mr. Linton. if you will allow me
to conduct the questions please.
Now. daughter..
...you will answer truthfully.
Do you understand?
Yes. father.
Did you see Branwell last night?
I saw him at supper.
'But did you see him
after that?'
Yes.
Is it entirely necessary
to subject a young
inexperienced woman--
I think it is. sir. and if she's
as guilty as a brother
there'll be consequences
for her too.
Where did you see him last?
- 'Why does she not speak?'
- 'Where did you see him?'
Do not bring shame
on this house. Emily Jane.
'Speak. girl.'
Did you go with him..
...Emily Jane?
- 'Answer!'
- I-I..
I told him I was tired.
And that it was madness to go
out at such a dark night
and so he left me.
Father. please.
'Very well. Emily Jane.
you can go.'
- Father. please don't hurt him.
- Take her out.
- Branwell. take off your shirt.
- Please--
I don't want her to see
for God's sake.
No. he. don't.
He's already in pain. papa.
He's hurt his leg.
you don't need to hurt him more.
Let go of me!
Where are they taking him?
He's to work for Mr. Linton
to make amends.
No.
He's to tutor his son
for amends.
'Oh. come now.'
Branwell! Branwell!
Branwell!
- Take Emily home.
- Yes. sir.
Excuse me.
Ms. Bronte.
Ms. Bronte. wait. Your father
said I was to take you--
We'll have to wait in here.
I hope tonight illustrates
once and for all
why your brother is
a dangerous influence.
Because he kissed a woman?
Because he kissed
a married woman.
'Do you know what we
sisters used to call you?'
Celia Amelia.
- Do you know why?
- Why?
Because you're like
a little girl in a ribbon shop.
This ribbon. no. that ribbon.
You know better than him.
I'm surprised you notice
what I was doing at all.
You spend most of your time
looking at your feet.
Celia Amelia?
I suppose..
...it's in my nature.
To always want something new.
Don't know why I should be so.
Why do you always
look at your feet?
You hear how people talk of me?
I am odd.
I am an odd fish.
- A fish?
- Mm.
If you take me away from here.
I'll dry up and fade away.
I see.
So I am destined..
...to be stuck here.
In this backwater.
'This pond.'
Oh. yeah. that's very good.
Thank you.
This isn't a poem. Ms. Bronte.
'Can you hear it?'
What is it?
It's the sea.
- The sea?
- Yeah.
You're like these sea creatures
in deep oceans.
And why would you want
to leave the sea?
That's not what
the sea sounds like.
Yeah.
It's beautiful.
We should. we should stop!
Yes. you like it.
We should stop!
'Come.'
'Come in. Emily.'
Now. before you speak. Emily..
...I want you to know.
I know everything.
Father. I can explain.
In youth.
love is a confusing thing.
- Love?
- 'Yes.'
'It is a natural force
when appropriate.'
I deem this inappropriate.
- Mr. Weightman is--
- Mr. Weightman?
- Branwell must go away.
- Branwell?
'Yes. Branwell must go away
to another po--'
- Another..
- 'Position.'
'Yes. I have looked into it.'
He will be stationmaster
at Luddenden Foot.
'I want you to write
to your sisters'
'and tell them
what has happened.'
Yes.
'We must keep this
in the family.'
Dear Lord.
will there ever be an end
'to the disgrace of my son?'
- 'Emily!'
- Branwell!
You scared me.
No. don't. Don't.
'There's no need to look at me?'
I come back to see your face.
'But why?'
In case I saw something
different.
What would be different?
I-I would die if I saw disgust.
It's just the same.
'Pa will kill you
if he sees you here.'
'I came to give you this.'
'First chapter.'
Well done.
'But you must be brutally
honest.'
Of course.
- I'm sorry. I don't know why--
- 'It doesn't matter.'
I'm happy.
But will you promise me
something while I'm away?
'Of course.'
'He's not for you. my love.'
- I have to go.
- 'Wait.'
I wanted to..
'It's a poem.'
I wrote it.
- Thank you. sister.
- 'To say I'm sorry.'
You'll start to wonder
where I am.
I'm afraid.
Be well. my love.
Do you remember the night
I wore the mask?
It was just a story
you were telling.
Yes.
Let me see your face. you idiot.
Let me hold you.. Oh. beautiful.
Lavender.
Emily Bronte's secret
ingredient.
"Were we not friends
from childhood?"
"Have I not loved thee long?"
"As long as thou the
solemn night
Whose silence wakes my song."
"And when thy heart is resting
"Beneath the church-aisle stone
"I shall have time for mourning
And thou for being alone."
Shall I clear the plates now.
aunt?
Thank you. my dear.
Thank you. Ms. Bronte.
- Where to keep the scraps?
- Yes.
You can put them
in that bowl.
'But if you read every tract'
'that's put in your hands
by cunning'
'and designing people'
'or eagerly search out for.
and pursue such tract in books'
'as you know before to be bad.'
'Then you are sure to be
corrupted and misled.'
'And your talent of reading
will become a source of sin'
'and misery to yourselves
and others.'
- 'Amen.'
'Now. if you'd please turn
to page 365.'
"Dear Charlotte. I hope all is
well at the school
and you have not caught cold
with his current freeze."
"I myself am doing
remarkably well."
"My French is improving."
"And Weightman says I should
be quite fluid by the spring."
"Branwell is doing well
at the railways
and I visit him every Tuesday."
"He has promised to do better
and be better from now on."
"I'm being brave
and taking the train."
"Or occasionally I walk."
"I sincerely hope Anne's
lessons are progressing well."
"For my part. I do feel
that a home education
motivated by my own
curiosity.."
"...intellect..
"...and heart..
"...has proved to be..
...beyond any doubt..
...a delight."
"To live and to be a fool.
Charlotte."
"How right you were."
'Where'd you get your
ideas from?'
From my sentiments.
Ahem.
From..
From things that happen to me.
Those that occur.
feelings I have.
Do you ever feel it's not
coming from you at all?
Yes. Yes! It's. um..
It's as if I just chanced
to be in the right place.
And it chose me.
Is that strange?
No.
I feel that. too.
When my writing is at it's best.
Do you allow me to read
something?
"I needed not its breathing
To bring such thoughts to me
"But still it whispered lowly.
How dark the woods will be!"
"The thick leaves in my murmur
"Are rustling like a dream.
And all their myriad voices
"Instinct with spirit seem.
I said. Go. gentle singer
"Thy wooing voice is kind
But do not think its music
Has power to reach my mind."
I'll win thee 'gainst
thy will."
Sister!
Oh. Emily.
I've come home.
'I've been invited to Brussels'
to tutor young girls
at Plancenoit.
Uh. Monsieur Heger
will be my employer.
I'll further my studies
in French while I'm there.
'Perhaps an idea would be to
take Emily with you.'
'I mean. her French has
improved markedly.'
I'm happy here. father.
I don't want to speak French.
How dare you be so insolent.
Emily Jane. you will converse.
'Well..'
Sounds like she'll give you
a run for your money.
'Well. think on it.'
I shall have to look
at the finances. of course.
William!
'William!'
Let me in. please.
'What has happened?!'
'Please!'
'Let me in! What's happened?
Let me in. please!'
Mr. Weightman's hosting the new
family for afternoon teas.
Could you make a cake.
Emily Jane?
And you're both expected to pass
the scones and pour the tea.
I'm not feeling very well. aunt.
- 'Emily Jane.'
- I won't do it!
Emily.
Do you want me to speak
to your father?
Emily! There you are.
It's a cake.
Do come in. Ms. Bronte.
I don't know if it's any good.
Hello.
Hello. Hello.
Come. sit. sister.
I cannot stay long.
I think I'm coming down
with something.
Oh. that's a pity.
'It's hard in these
cooler months'
'to hold onto one's vivacity.'
Yes.
Yes. Vivacity is an elusive
thing. Mr. Barker.
Have you been well?
Yes. quite well.
No. I think the weather
is turning.
- Do you not agree. Mr. Barker?
- Like one's nature.
- Quite right. Ms. Bronte.
- Jonathan.
Do you remember what you said
about your nature?
No. I. um..
Ms. Bronte!
'Mr. Weightman!'
Your sister isn't feeling well
I'm afraid.
What's happened?
What has happened?
We have committed a mortal sin.
God will not forgive me
for what I've done.
But I must make amends. now you
you'll stay away from me.
from now on. do you hear?
I don't understand.
I will call your father now
if you do not leave at once.
No!
- That night you wore the mask..
- Pardon?
The night when I was first here.
you wore the mask.
- We were playing the game.
- Yes.
And you.. We..
We.. Did you..?
Did I what?
Did I what?!
- No. sorry!
- No!
Now I think there's something
ungodly in you..
...in your writing.
In your poetry. I..
...I feel it
when we're together.
- Listen. I..
- That's not true.
I have stand in here.
I'm-I'm respected over here.
I. uh. I have worked to do.
If you don't obey my wishes
I will tell your father
all that you've done.
All of it.
Do you understand me?
Please. don't do that!
- Go.
- Please!
- Ple..
- Go!
Go!
You look tired.
It's very busy at the parsonage.
I haven't heard from Anne.
Charlotte's got a teaching
position in Brussels.
Bully for her.
- Father and Aunt B.
- 'Fine.'
'How's Weightman?'
He's well.
- Did you get my second chapter?
- Yes.
'What did you think of it?'
What did you think of it?
Honestly?
Well. it's..
It's the most self important
overwritten piece of writing.
And. lazy.
I've never read such
lazy writing.
- Pardon?
- It's unclear.
I couldn't understand what was
going on half the time.
And the thing that really
upsets me is that
you obviously don't have any
perspective on what a truly
terrible.
terrible writer you are.
'Honestly. it's laughable.'
'Your characters wander
about aimlessly.'
Soppy descriptions of hills
and mountains.
And your lead characters have
about as much depth as one of
your sketches. which is
so obviously stolen from Byron.
And it seemed as difficult
for you to avoid a cliche
as it is for you to
avoid a drink.
And that's saying something.
because you sit here
off your head most of the time
on what is it this week. opium?
Gin?
Rum. is it rum?
You sit here in this hole
at your little desk
with your little bed
all hopeful and perfect
about the future
and all the lovely things
that will happen to you!
It's pathetic!
I don't know how you
get through the day.
Please.
'Oh. that's right.
We know. don't we?'
I have to go.
I hope you fall in love someday.
So I can be like you?
'So you can bleed.
like the rest of us.'
I'll never be like you.
You are me.
Mystic as well as a psychic now?
You seem a little
'over qualified
for your current employment.'
Let's not fight. I'm-I'm so glad
that you've come.
- I have to go.
- But y-you just got here.
- This is from father. Money!
- No. No. I--
- No. no. I don't want--
- Take it.
You'll need something to buy
whatever it is you need now.
Yes. of course.
Thank you.
Em. did you really think
that about my writing?
I-is it..
Well. thank you.
Alright. I will. I will try
and do better from now on.
I'll. uh.. Alright?
Really will.
Shall we begin?
Turn to page 71.
There's a French verb tense
for past participle negative.
- We haven't covered yet.
- Hmm.
Yes. it's quite tricky.
isn't it?
- Come.
- Papa.
'What is it. child?'
Emily's decided to travel
with me to Brussels.
Are you sure. Emily Jane?
- Yes. papa.
- 'Very well.'
'So you're all prepared?'
- 'Yes.'
- 'Good. good.'
- 'Goodnight. papa.'
- 'Goodnight. child.'
- 'Goodnight. Aunt Branwell.'
- 'Goodnight. Emily.'
Ms. Bronte.
'Good evening.'
It's very exciting news
about-about Brussels.
Are-are you looking forward
to it?
Yes. thank you. I am.
Perhaps. perhaps
you will find some inspiration
there for-for your writing.
Oh. I do not write anymore.
I'm to be a teacher.
Ah..
What?
Goodnight. curate.
But maybe if..
You-you must write. eh.
Ms. Bronte.
I'm very tired. Mr. Weightman.
Yes. uh. apologies. Um..
I-I shall see you at-at the
morning tea tomorrow.
I have to pack in the morning.
Yes. of-of course.
Goodnight.
So who decided to bring
the plums?
They are actually from
the garden.
Really? Oh!
Shouldn't you be heading off
now. brother?
It's the long walk back.
'Pa said I could stay
the night.'
See you two off in the morning.
'You're staying to see us off?'
- That's very kind.
- Yeah.
You're here.
I'm sorry for the things
I said that day.
My mind wasn't right.
It was the truth though.
I'm not a writer.
'Read your poem. by the way.'
It's brilliant.
Perhaps the most beautiful thing
I've ever read.
'Where's it?'
Here it is.
Keep it in my pocket
so I can read it sometimes.
"Emily.."
"...my dear beloved."
"My beloved.
You need to go to Brussels"
"to delay the most
terrifying.."
What is it?
"My Emily.."
Nothing.
"My love."
"Come back to me."
There's only one true happiness
in this life.
To love and be loved.
I read that recently.
Very true.
He didn't sleep in his bed
all night. curate.
Reverend Bronte is in his study
if you want to speak to him.
No. no. no.
I'm sure I can find him.
Thank you.
I've not seen him this morning.
curate.
Thank you.
Morning. uh. have you seen.
uh. Branwell Bronte?
Branwell!
Branwe--
'You ready. sister?'
Yes.
Have courage.
Where's Branwell?
Have you seen him?
She said no.
She said.
"Tell him to leave me be."
Emily!
What is it?
From papa.
"But it is with great sadness..
"...I write that our
dear curate
"William Weightman..
"Our dear curate
William Weightman
"lost his fight with this
terrible cholera
and passed away last night."
"He was stoic to the end."
"And asked in his last
few moments
'"if I would pass on to
my daughters in Brussels'
'his deepest regard."'
'Oh. dear!'
'It seems that our grandmother's
unwell now too.'
'We will have to go back.'
I was there at the end.
'You know what he said
when he died?'
His last words.
Neither do I.
I stepped out for a smoke.
Just for a minute..
...came back.
Gone.
Em! Did you write these?
These poems. they're so..
Emily! Emily!
- Someone should see these.
- No! The end!
You deserve for someone to see.
Someone did!
Someone did see them! You!
'He's asking for you again.'
More opium.
- It's not time yet.
- 'Give it to me!'
Em. come here.
Emily. look at you.
Why did you not write?
I love you. Em.
'I did it because I love you.'
Did what?
Em!
Branwell!
Couldn't get him to lie down.
He asked that
I should give you this.
"Dear Emily. I'm giving this
letter to Branwell
"in hope that
he may persuade you
not to go to Brussels
tomorrow morning."
"To delay."
"My dear beloved.
the last time we spoke
you told me that you'd
no longer write."
"And the most terrible
feeling came upon me."
"As if I was lying
already in the earth."
"I know now there is only
one true happiness
in this life.
to love and be loved."
I see you finished it then.
Next week we go to London
to meet with Emily's publisher.
Quite important meeting.
Well..
Thank you all for coming..
...to share with us
our Emily's
wonderful achievement.
'To think that someone
from our family'
'someone from our humble
little parish'
'that their story would
be read in London tonight
'by some of the most
prominent minds'
'well. it does give pause.'
To my daughter Emily
'of whom I have never
been more proud.'
'To Emily.'
'I have often struggled
to understand you..'
'....Emily Jane.'
'But now I see that there is
so much of your mother in you.'
It's my dearest wish that
Emily's mother
would have been here tonight
to see this.
Ah!
Charlotte!
He'll be here soon.
'To live and to be a fool.'
You said that to me once.
didn't you?
That's how I wrote my story.
I loved him. you know.
Who?
Silly old pea. Liam.
'Walked home with him
in the rain.'
The music was in my ears.
Oh. it was so full.
Will you do something for me.
my love?
The chest under our bed.
What is it?
'Do you promise me?'
Of course.
Hurry. papa!
'Charlotte!'
'Had to go!'
Do you remember
when we were little..
'...how you would tell me
stories?'
I used to love listening
to your stories.
You did?
Where did they come from?